[Term Entry] JavaScript Array.prototype.findLastIndex() (#2591)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/arrays/terms/findLastIndex/findLastIndex.md

---
Title: '.findLastIndex()'

> Description: 'Iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, returns -1.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, it returns -1.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The `.findLastIndex()` iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, returns -1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.findLastIndex()` iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, it returns -1.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo 
array.findLastIndex((element, index) => {...});
```

The function can be invoked with two arguments:

- `element`: The current element we are iterating through.
- `index` (optional): The index of the array element.

## Example

Find the index with a value of 200 in the array:

```js
const numbers = [10, 42, 53, 12, 45, 66, 33, 6, 10000, 200, 10];

const findIndexResult = numbers.findLastIndex((value, index) => {
  return value === 200;
});

console.log(findIndexResult);
```

This results in the following output:

```shell
9
```

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: Unfortunately the `findLastIndex()` function isn't recognized by codebytes. So we can't have a codebyte for this entry. However, I think this is a good example, so could you revise this to be "Example 2" with the same code in a ` ```js ` block, and include an output block afterwards?

Author: Resolved with commit ea86dbb8803f93d8e57390b0045cd3c3f18ded5c

---
Title: '.findLastIndex()'
Description: 'Iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, returns -1.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The `.findLastIndex()` iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, returns -1.

## Syntax

```js
array.findLastIndex((element, index) => {...});
```

The function can be invoked with two arguments:

- `element`: The current element we are iterating through.
- `index` (optional): The index of the array element.

## Example

Find the index with a value of 200 in the array:

```js
const numbers = [10, 42, 53, 12, 45, 66, 33, 6, 10000, 200, 10];

const findIndexResult = numbers.findLastIndex((value, index) => {
  return value === 200;
});

console.log(findIndexResult);
```

This results in the following output:

```shell
9
```

## Codebyte Example

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In this example, showcasing the difference on how **.findIndex()** and **.findLastIndex()** iterate through the array:

```
also try not to use pronouns

```codebyte/js

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> In this example, we will showcase the difference on how .findIndex() and .findLastIndex() iterate through the array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Let's add the line before the code snippet

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

// This is an example of using .findIndex().

let age = [13, 20, 15, 45, 1, 44, 80]

console.log('findIndex() method: ');

let findIndex = age.find((value, index) => {
    console.log('Checking age index: ', index);
    return value === 80
})

// Now we use .findLastIndex().

age = [13, 20, 15, 45, 1, 44, 80]

console.log('findLastIndex() method: ');

findIndex = age.findLastIndex((value, index) => {
    console.log('Checking age index: ', index);
    return value === 80
})

```

> > **Note:** If you ever need to search for an element's index within the array, and you know the value will be towards the end, using .findLastIndex shortens the iteration path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If ever needing to search for an element's index within the array, and knowing the value will be towards the end, using **.findLastIndex** shortens the iteration path.
```

---
Title: '.findLastIndex()'

> Description: 'Iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, it returns -1.'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Description: 'Iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The `.findLastIndex()` iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, it returns -1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **`.findLastIndex()`** iterates through the array in reverse order and returns the index that passes the provided testing function. If no item passes, it returns `-1`.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
array.findLastIndex((element, index) => {...});
```

The function can be invoked with two arguments:

> - `element`: The current element we are iterating through.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `element`: The current element in the iteration.
```

- `index` (optional): The index of the array element.

> ## Example

Reviewer 3: I would recommend deleting this example. This is essentially a duplicate from the findLast entry and it isn't really demonstrating anything that isn't present in the second example .

Find the index with a value of 200 in the array:

```js
const numbers = [10, 42, 53, 12, 45, 66, 33, 6, 10000, 200, 10];

const findIndexResult = numbers.findLastIndex((value, index) => {
  return value === 200;
});

console.log(findIndexResult);
```

This results in the following output:

```shell
9
```

## Example 2

> In this example, showcasing the difference on how **.findIndex()** and **.findLastIndex()** iterate through the array:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example showcases the difference in the how `.findIndex()` and `.findLastIndex()` iterate through the array:
```

```js
let age = [13, 20, 15, 45, 1, 44, 80];

console.log('findIndex() method: ');

let findIndex = age.find((value, index) => {
  console.log('Checking age index: ', index);
  return value === 80;
});
```

```shell

> 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

Reviewer 3: This isn't quite right, it should be "Checking age index: 0" ....

```

```js

> Now we use .findLastIndex().

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// Now we use .findLastIndex().
```

age = [13, 20, 15, 45, 1, 44, 80]

console.log('findLastIndex() method: ');

findIndex = age.findLastIndex((value, index) => {
    console.log('Checking age index: ', index);
    return value === 80
})
```

```shell

> 6

Reviewer 3: same edit as above

```

> > **Note:** If ever needing to search for an element's index within the array, and knowing the value will be towards the end, using **.findLastIndex** shortens the iteration path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If an element is known to be at the end of an array, using `.findLastIndex` can shorten the iteration path.
```
